---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "E3: Preparing for WODs Technical Essay"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2023-02-17
published: true
labels:
  - E3 Essay
  - WODs
---

## [E3: Preparing for WODs Essay](https://dport96.github.io/ITM352/morea/060.expressions-operators/experience-preparing-for-WOD.html)
*The following below is a summary of the WODs I have done within the past month*

## [BrowserHistory6](https://dport96.github.io/ITM352/morea/040.dynamic-web-pages/experience-browserhistory6.html)

BrowserHistory6 required you to use files from a previous WOD ([BrowserHistory3](https://dport96.github.io/ITM352/morea/030.ui-basics/experience-browserhistory3.html)). The goal of this WOD was to build on to what I have already learned which was HTML and CSS. This was, for the most part static however, around the time when this WOD was assigned, I was already learning about dynamic webpages. This WOD wanted you to separate the three web browsers into their own individual HTML files while providing a link that would access all three on the original index.html file. The "dynamic" part of this WOD was to incorporate onclick and onmouseover on the buttons that would take you to the different webpages. In terms of performance, I did not struggle too much with the HTML and CSS because of my previous experiences and WODs. Separating the different web browsers into separate files was easy. Although, I did take 4 attempts to complete this WOD with an Rx score. The most challenging part of this WOD was linking the webpages to the buttons on the index.html file and using an id to refer a div for displaying the browsers' icons. Notably, what worked well was organizing large blocks of code. By separating large blocks of code I avoid straining my eyes and ultimately become more productive. Something I can improve on is utilizing copy and pasting. The amount of time I could be saving on my WODs if I just copied and pasted repetitive code more often.

## [SmartPhoneProducts1 with Variables](https://dport96.github.io/ITM352/morea/050.variables_data_types/experience-SmartPhoneProducts1_variables.html)

The SmartPhoneProducts1 with Variables WOD was challenging and tedious. This WOD tasked you to use a separate javascript file and reference it to the html file. Moreover, you also had to display the data stored in the variables to the html page. For this WOD, I was surprised to find myself only need 1 attempt to complete it. I ended this attempt with a score of Av. In my opinion, some of the steps of this WOD were familiar to me as I have done them in previous WODs such as referencing different files. The difference from this WOD compared to the one above is that I am using a separate javascript page along with html to showcase my smartphone products. Since it was only 1 attempt, I believe that what slowed me down was changing the variable names for every different product data. I regret not using the regEx extension to speed up the process. I ran the risk of creating spelling errors which would stop my code from working.

## [Invoice1](https://dport96.github.io/ITM352/morea/060.expressions-operators/experience-invoice1.html)

The Invoice1 WOD was fun and challenging. I think this is my favorite WOD that I completed so far. This WOD steered away from the SmartPhone webpages we have been working in for a while. Instead, it wanted you to create a receipt of items and work with operators to display values like subtotals, tax, and the actual total. I took 2 attempts to complete this WOD with a score Av. Declaring variables and computing was simple and enjoyable. I think the most difficult part of this WOD was creating the table and using string templates. I have never really worked with string templates until now. This lesson has made me realize how convenient it is to use string templates from time to time. In my first attempt, I was stubborn and refused to use string templates. Essentially, I opted to try my luck with row.insertCell().innerHTML; option. Needless to say, I struggled a lot... I was able to create the table rows but I hit a wall when I had to display the subtotal and tax row. After my first attempt, I watched the video and reviewed on what I needed to do for my next try. To be honestly, at the time of this WOD, I did not really understand how string templates worked. This is why I think that I did not really prepare myself well enough for this WOD which is something I plan to work on moving forward for future WODs.

## Concluding Thoughts

After several weeks of doing WODs, I am starting to get used to it. I think that WODs are an excellent way to practice concepts that I learned in class and can also be fun at times. Doing these WODs made me realize how nice live server is. I do not think I would be able to identify if I am making a mistake fast enough if not for the instant changes reflected on the live server extension. Based on my performance on these WODs, I think I can still make more improvements. In general, I wish I included more comments to indicate what a specific line of code is for. I also think that when using variables, it would be practical to use variable names pertaining to the context of the code I am trying to write. I would like to use other efficient extensions and learn how they work so that I have an easier time working with code. Additionally, I really need to be more prepared for each WOD. I should be taking more steps to review before making any attempts at these WODs. Overall, I had a fun time doing these WODs and I look forward to our next set of WODs.
